---
title: Fibre Optics
weight: 3
---
# Optical Fibre

Has 3 coaxial regions
1. Innermost region: light guiding region: core
2. Middle region: cladding
	1. Surrounds the core
	2. Its refractive index is lower than the core
	3. Reduces scattering losses.
3. Outermost region: Sheath/protective buffer/outer jacket
	1. Adds mechanical strength

They are constructed as either as a single fibre or a bundled up cable.

# Snell's Law

$$
n_1 \sin i = n_2 \sin r
$$

## Total Internal Reflection

The angle of incidence is such that the refracted angle goes to 90° and then turns into total internal reflection if it's greater than the 'critical angle'

$$
\sin i_c = \frac{n_2}{n_1}<1
$$

> Light in a fibre optic travels by utilizing this property of reflection/refraction
# Types of Optical Fibres

There are 2 types:
1. Single Mode Fibre (SMF): Has a smaller core diameter and can support only one mode of propagation.
2. Multimode Fibre (MMF): Has a larger core diameter and supports a number of modes. Further distinguished based on index-profile
	1. Step index type
	2. Graded index (GRIN) type

## Single Mode Step Index Fibre
* Refractive index changes abruptly at the core-cladding boundary: "step index"
* Core diameter: 4 μm
* Path: Single and almost straight
* NA: 0.05-0.4

## Multimode Step Index Fibre
* Referactive index changes abruptly at the core-cladding boundary: "step index"
* Core diameter: 100 μm
* Path: Many zigzag paths
* NA: order of 3

## Multimode Graded Index Fibre
* Refractive index of the core varies with distance from the fibre axis. Has high value at the center and falls off with increasing radial distance from the axis.
* Acceptance angle and Numerical aperture decreases with radial distance from axis.

# Parameters of Fibres

## Numerical Aperature

There are three rays that are involved
1. Incident ray going into the tube →
2. Refracted ray bouncing the wall of the core →
3. Totally internally reflected ray

i: Angle of the initial incident ray with respect to the axis of the tube

i_max: acceptance angle of incidence for which the total internal refraction can occur.

$$\sin i_{max}=\sqrt{n_1^2-n_2^2}=NA\approx n_1\sqrt{2\Delta}$$

$\Delta=\frac{n_1-n_2}{n_1}$

i_max: acceptance angle of incidence for which the total internal refraction can occur.

## V-Number

Called normalized frequency of the fibre.

a: radius of the core
$$
V=\frac{2\pi a}{\lambda}NA
$$

## Maximum possible modes

N_m: maximum number of modes supported 

* by a Step Index fibre: $\frac{V^2}{2}$ (if V<2.405: N_m=1, else N_m>1)
* by a GRIN fibre: $\frac{V^2}{4}$

## Losses in optical fibre

For a fibre of length L and Power input P_i and output P_o,

loss = $\frac{10}{L} \log \frac{P_i}{P_o}$

# Advantages (over coaxial cables)

* No loss
* Speed/Bandwidth
* Cost effective
* Light weight
* Strong and flexible
* Non Hazardous
* Low Interference. No cross talk.
* Low/no electromagnetic and radio frequency interference

# Applications

1. Medical applications
	1. A bundle of fibres (MMF) is used to illuminate areas of body
	2. A 2nd bundle is used to collect the reflected light
	3. A laser beam is also used as a guide in many cases.
2. Military applications
	1. Maintains true communication silence to the enemy.
	2. Use of Fibre-guided missiles that send video and receive commands for operations
3. Entertainment Applications
	1. For optical projection systems
4. Optical Fibre Sensors: To measure 
	1. Temperature changes
	2. Smoke/pollution detector
	3. Level of liquid in a container.
5. Communications Applications