---
title: Electromagnetic Waves
weight: 1
---
## What are they?

Coupled electric and magnetic oscillations that move with the speed of light and exhibit typical wave behavior.

# The story

* Faraday: Changing magnetic field can induce a current in a wire loop
* James Clerk Maxwell: Accelerated electric charges/changing electric field generate linked electric and magnetic fields.
	* Based on symmetry argument but not on experimental findings as they are harder to detect.
	* Concluded that light consists of electromagnetic waves
* Heinrich Hertz: Showed that EM waves do exist. ^6e61b3
	* Conducted an experiment with two metal balls
	* Generated waves by applying alternating current to an air gap between those balls.
	* A wire loop with a small gap was the detector=> em waves set up oscillations in the loop that produced sparks in the gap.

# Waves
Range of visible light:
$[4.3\rightarrow7.5]*10^{14} Hz$

**Principle of Superposition:** When two or more waves of the same nature travel past a point at the same time, the instantaneous amplitude there, is the sum of the instantaneous amplitudes of the individual waves.

## Instantaneous Amplitude

Displacement from mean position. Since electric and magnetic fields in a light wave are related by $\frac{E}{B}=c$, its instantaneous amplitude can be taken as either E or B but usually ***E*** is used

## Young's experiment

He used a pair of slits illuminated by monochromatic light from a single source and demonstrated interference of light waves.

Places on the screen where path length difference is
* odd number of half wavelengths: *destructive* interference
* even number of half wavelengths: *constructive* interference
